$Id: KUDOS 652 2005-05-11 06:53:07Z phf $

MINI

The programming language Mini was designed and first implemented
by Fridtjof Siebert (see http://www.fridi.de/ for more). Mini was
a case study for an introduction to compiler design, published in
a special issue of a German computer magazine back in 1992.

The original implementation was for the Commodore Amiga, written
in Oberon, and generated code for the Motorola 68000. I found the
original sources in April 2005 remembered reading the article all
those years ago. So as a "tribute" to "the olden days," I decided
to reimplement the language. :-)

LC-3

The "newtraps.asm" support library is courtesy of Dave McCarthy
(see http://www.cosc.brocku.ca/Faculty/index.php3?nameflag=McCarthy)
and was originally written by Robert Flack.

Brian Linard <blinard@cs.ucr.edu> helped a lot with the (up and
coming) LC-3 code generator supporting 32-bit arithmetic. Brian
has taught taught the introductory computer architecture course
for years, no wonder he knows this sad excuse for a processor by
heart. :-)

MMIX

For the MMIX code generator I copied pieces of the IO routines
from an Algol-68S compiler by Ziyang Wang <ziyang@cs.nyu.edu>.

Sample code from a book published by my alma mater also helped
(see http://www.informatik.fh-muenchen.de/~mmix/MMIXBuch/ for
details).

PowerPC

So far I can only credit myself since I based this largely on a
more complicated PowerPC backend I had done for another compiler.
The obvious things from Motorola, IBM, and Apple were helpful.

The I/O routines are once again based on Ziyang's MMIX routines.

IA-32

For the most part I simply consulted the official Intel documents.

The I/O routines are once again based on Ziyang's MMIX routines,
but I also found another web reference that was helpful to get to
know the dreaded DIV instruction better; sorry, no reference for
that.

